For more on today's decision, let's get to senior economics reporter Steve Leisman, who is in Washington. Steve. Hey Melissa, you have the Fed following through on an expected hawkish rate cut, reducing rates by 0.25 point to the new range of 3.5 to 375%, but signaling might be done cutting, at least for now. It appeared to buoy markets, however, with a more aggressive policy than expected for the balance sheet on rates, the statement, what it did, it used language that it had used in the past to signal a pause, and Fed Chair Jay Powell several times said policy is well positioned. We've now got a total of 175 basis points, and as I mentioned, you know, we, we feel like, uh, where we're positioned now puts we're well positioned to wait and see how the economy evolves from here. Fed futures embrace that outlook pricing in just a 24% probability of a cut in January, 44% for March, and a little bit more in April, a little bit more confidence as the year goes by. By the way, when a new Fed chair comes in in June, the vote count was 9 for cutting, 2 against cutting, 1 for cutting 50 basis points, first time since 2019 we've had 3 dissents, but the dot plotter forecast of future rate cuts was. Somewhat more hawkish. 6 officials wanted no change in the Fed funds rate at this meeting. 7 want no change for next year from the current rate. The median, however, came out with one cut for next year and another one for 2027. More dovish was that balance sheet, Alec that Melissa mentioned. It will begin on December 12th, the Fed going back in and buying securities sooner than the market expected, focused on bills, but potentially up to three year maturities. And here's the one that really. It was a bit of a shocker, totaling 40 billion for at least several months, also more than expected. Powell insisting this is not quantitative easing, but the Fed maintaining the size of the balance sheet relative to the economy and providing liquidity during times of strong demand. Call it what you will. The markets seem to like it. Melissa. Call it what you will. I call it QE. I don't know if if you're basically enacting a measure that will. Push down rates further beyond the rate cut that you that you just voted on, that seems to me a form of of QE. Yes, I mean, I like the way you phrase that. In other words, judge it by its effect, not its intention. I think that's right, but I think what we're going to want to do is watch it over time. Does the size of the balance sheet actually grow in a way that's greater than the growth of the Fed's? Currency and other reserve liabilities that are out there. I think what's going to happen is you're going to get a flood for a couple of months and then it's supposed to drop off in April. We'll have to watch the management to see if this is quantitative easing in the sense of adding a lot of reserves to the system. Powell is going to tell you, hey, this is just reserve management maintaining what they call an ample level of reserves. Yes, so Steve, it's Seymour, and part of this is understanding what Seymour, what the intention of this is. Maybe you just hit it. Maybe we can put it to bed. There have been some spikes and massive repo infusions over the last month, month and a half. Is this something to counter, you know, like so much for the end of QT this. Do we need this here? I mean, I understand there have been between the government shutdown and whatnot reasons why we've seen a spike and concern around liquidity, but talk to me, Tim. I think you're you're raising some really important context that the Fed's changing its balance sheet and its balance sheet stance and Doing so quicker than had been expected by the market is in response to some of the tightness we've seen essentially in the plumbing of the financial system. These repo rates have traded towards the high end. There's been some disruption out there, and I think the Fed was getting the signal from the market that it had brought reserves down. Too too far and too much relative to what the market required to operate in a way that would allow it to maintain the funds rate where it wanted it to maintain it. So I think the context is important that the Fed is doing this in response to that tightness in the repo market and now we'll see if the provisions out there. I will say for another day there's a Debate that the Fed could have done this differently in a way of not introducing the balance sheet, not increasing the balance sheet. A guy named Bill Nelson, former Fed guy, Kevin Warsh, other people had other ways to do this, but this is the way that Powell and the Powell Fed are running this system here, the ample reserve regime, which probably doesn't deserve but still requires an hour to talk about.