The Federal Reserve reducing interest rates by an expected quarter point to a new range of 3.5% to 3.75%. There were three dissents, the first time that's happened since September 2019. 2 were against the cut, including Chicago Fed President Austan Goolsbee, along with Kansas City Fed President Jeff Smith, his second dissent in a row. Also another dissent for a 50 basis point cut from new Fed Governor on loan from the administration, Stephen Myron. To recap, the vote was 9 for cutting 25%, 2 against cutting, 1 for cutting 50 basis points. The Fed signaled a higher bar for the next cut, using language that it's used in the past to do so, saying that it will assess incoming data to determine the extent and timing of future rate moves. That language it used last December to signal a pause. The rate outlook suggests consensus for just one more cut next year and one more in 2027, but as I'll get to. Talk about the dot plot. A lot of disagreement before the dot plot though, I want to talk about some pretty big news when it comes to the balance sheet. The committee making a determination. It is now at what it calls an ample level of reserves. So it plans to initiate purchases of shorter term treasuries on an ongoing basis. And then a separate document was specific, saying the Fed will begin buying $40 billion in bills starting December 12th. That's just a couple of days. From now, and I believe that's sooner than the market expected, and those purchases will go on for a little while at an elevated level because of seasonal demands for reserves that are out there before coming down again in April. That's what the document says. Outlook on the economy in the statement. GDP outlook was stronger next year in the Fed's own forecast, up a half a point to 2.4%. So pretty big move there in the outlook for GDP next year. The inflation outlook lower for next year by. Just a tick down to 2.5%, just about hitting the target of 2.1% in 2027. The statement says the economy is expanding at a moderate pace. Job gains have slowed, and unemployment has edged up. Just a note, the statement no longer says that the unemployment rate is low at the current rate. Inflation is seen as somewhat elevated. Economic uncertainty also elevated. Back to the Fed outlook and the dot pot real quickly here. Only 2cents. But 6 officials in total wanted no change in the funds rate according to the dot plot, so kind of a soft descent in that regard you can call it. 7 want no change at all for next year, 11 only want 1 cut next year. One person, and we can imagine who that is, Stephen Myron, just guessing here, wants rates down to 2.12% next year, or 150 basis points lower, and that is the statement and the outlook for rate cuts and the balance sheet.