We start this hour with major breaking economic news. The Federal Reserve making its decision on interest rates. Let's go right to the Fed, where CNN's Matt Egan is standing by. Matt, any surprises? Well, Boris, look, this was the 0.5% interest rate cut that was widely expected. This is the 3rd straight interest rate cut from the Fed, giving consumers and businesses some relief from high borrowing costs because this lowers the Fed rate to a fresh 3-year low. But the fact that the Fed is cutting at all right now during a time of stubborn inflation underscores the level of concern from officials inside this. About the weakening job market and the risk that that weakness snowballs into something more serious. Now let me read you some of the key lines from the new Fed statement that was just put out. Fed officials are reiterating that job gains have slowed this year and that the unemployment rate has edged up. They removed language that previously said that the unemployment rate remains low. Now looking ahead, the Fed signaled that future interest rate cuts are not a done deal. Sort of some new language saying that they're going to have to deliberate about the extent and timing of additional interest rate cuts and so that does sort of hint at the fact that there's some uncertainty over when and whether they're going to be able to continue to lower interest rates. Now the new projections put out from the Fed as well just moments ago, um, some significant developments there. Fed officials are only penciling in one more. Interest rate cut next year. That's a bit of a surprise because some Fed watchers had been anticipating the Fed would signal two cuts, but that's not the case, and that may be because they've actually upgraded their views on what's gonna happen in the economy in 2026. They significantly upgraded their forecast for 2026 GDP. They also think that unemployment is not going to continue to rise. They see 4.4. 4% unemployment by the end of next year. That is good news on the inflation front. They also marked down their forecast for inflation. They don't think it's going to get back to normal next year, but they also do see it continuing to improve. Now the other big news here is that this is an increasingly divided Federal Reserve. Normally these decisions are unanimous, or perhaps there's one official that dissents. This time there's three officials who've. That's the first time we've seen that since 2019 and tellingly, Boris, the officials are dissenting in both directions. White House economist Steven Myron, who's a Fed governor, he wanted an even bigger interest rate cut, and two regional Fed presidents, they didn't want a cut at all. And now the attention shifts to what Fed Chair Jerome Powell says later this year, later this hour, about where he sees interest rates and the economy going in 2026. Back to you. Matt Egan, thank you so much for that update from the Federal Reserve. Let's get some perspective now with Robin Farzad. He's a business journalist and the host of NPR's Full Disclosure. Robin, great to see you. What does this mean for the average American consumer? You might seem some incremental, uh, relief on your personal finances, credit cards, and the others, but it's really cold comfort, especially as Wall Street deliberates this, is, is saying, does the Fed still have its independence in that Jerome Powell is already a lame duck. He's probably leaving the situation with his last rate cut at 0.25% point. And what does the future foretell? The, the Fed can only look into its crystal ball so much, try to divine what unemployment is gonna be next. And right now, it's almost like Wall Street, uh, the investing community, the bond community, is like this other branch of government, a check on Donald Trump riding roughshod over the Fed's independence and saying, I just want a person cutting more than this. It should not be dictated by the White House, and. Let's see how the markets react. Uh, if they sense that the White House is now controlling monetary policy by proxy and that bodes well for the next Fed chair, then that is not good for markets. And who knows if anybody's going to get the leeway to cut as much as Donald Trump wants. And Robin, a survey from the National Federation of Independent Business finds small businesses ramped up price hikes in November at a historic pace. Does that raise questions for you about the wisdom of a cut, or are other factors at play? I think about that, Brianna, and I think about where asset markets and real estate are right now, you typically would not see an urgency for rate cuts. What does kind of beg that is the general mood out there, consumer sentiment, this kind of shadow joblessness that maybe the headline unemployment rate doesn't reflect, and I wonder, If it's a cost of capital thing, if you're thinking about borrowing, are you as a small business or a corporation saying, gee, if only rates were lower, I would go out and hire a ton of people? I'm not sure it's about that. Maybe if rates are lower, they're gonna go back and buy stock, or consider other things, or save cash, or invest the money. The, the big. The multi-trillion dollar question right now is how do we create and sustain jobs in this environment where it's threatened by AI, where it's threatened by automation, where China's dumping its wares on the United States, and that's not necessarily a bottleneck about interest rates. There are, there are kind of broader existential issues at play. Robin, I don't obviously have the full slate of votes in front of me the way that Matt Egan does, but I wonder what you made of some of the dissenting opinions that we heard about. You have Steven Myron, uh, wanting a bigger cut, and you had at least 2 members not wanting any cut. That's troublesome. I mean, that's pretty binary, isn't it? I mean, maybe you're looking at a proxy of the White House or somebody out there. You, you typically, as Matt said in the past, you would see some unanimity around it. Either we are slowing down or we are too hot. Uh, the Fed, in Powell's defense is saying that look, we've been at a restrictive interest rate policy, merely by taking it down a smidge, we're approaching neutral. I know that gets in the jargon. But what's kind of, you know, resets it at the, at the zero level is the big question right now. But the fact that there were 2 governors out there, 2 presidents saying that we should not have hiked at all, I think reflects still a concern about inflation. We haven't slaked, we haven't killed inflation, and maybe there still has to be more pain and bloodletting, the likes of which Donald Trump and this dissident. Fed member don't want to see they're basically saying that when you have a balancing act between inflation and unemployment, unemployment now is the driving force. Full employment is what they are aiming for, and what this tells us is they don't have a huge amount of really good data because of the government shutdown and all that took place there. They are somewhat cloudy, not quite in the dark because there are other surveys, but the view is clearly that unemployment is now the risk. The labor market is the risk, and so they'll probably wait and see until they get better data on how that's going to play out. And of course Richard, just context for our viewers, I believe this will be, this meeting will be Fair Chair Jerome Powell's last, right, before then President Trump picks his successor. Any, what are you hearing about who could be next? Are you hearing any possible names? Yes, there's a whole host of people who could be named. The number, the name everyone's talking about is Kevin Hassett, who is the chief economic advisor at the moment, and he seems to be the man to beat. However, there is a concern that he is too much in the president's camp, and if he were to be appointed as chair of the Fed, then he would be too willing to do the president's bidding in lowering interest rates. I think that might be overstating it a bit much. The man is a senior economist of great experience and repute, but certainly the The shift forward now is going to be not so much just on whether they cut next or whatever, it's who they nominate, who takes over from Jerome Powell, and that will give us a good indication of whether we're going to have many more cuts in the future. I'm just looking to see if you do look at the way because what we're also going to get is the famous dot plot. Wait a minute here we go. This is the bit I was looking for sorry. The dissents voting against the action was Stephen Mirren, well Kelsapri, who preferred to raise it to lower it by 0.5% point, and Austan Goolsbee and Jeffrey Schmidt, who preferred no change to the target rate at this meeting. I'm glad I did take the time for that because this shows a split. This shows that the FOMC is absolutely split between those who would have done nothing, those who moved along with the Fed chair, and Stephen Mirren on his own, who would have done 0.5% point. This is not a comfortable Fed or place for the position for the central bank to be in. And remind me if I'm wrong, the last time you and I spoke with another Fed decision, there was also a split. Was there not? From what I can remember, I think we were, we were, we were both discussing this, and this, and this point, I think it's important given of course what we've heard, we've been hearing the last 24 hours, in fact, Richard, from President Trump, uh, in particular yesterday in Pennsylvania. I'm not sure whether you heard an interview he did. He talked, he gave the economy a ++++, I think, uh, and saying it, talking about affordability. Saying it's like, I'm going to quote him here, it's like Bonnie and Clyde preaching about public safety. Where, where are we on prices because prices don't seem to be going down, and I was looking at some of the consumer confidence, that's at record lows too. Speak to that, Richard. OK, so where we are with prices is that they're not going up by as fast. All right, so it's not they're never going to come down. Forget that. Maybe the odd item is going to come down. You're not talking about falling prices, God forbid. That's deflation, and we're not even at disinflation, which means neither going up nor going, going down. We are still in an inflationary environment where it's rising by more than 50% more. The Fed's target is 2%. That's going over by over 3%, so it's clearly elevated and it is a serious risk and the Freed's credibility is on the line because of it and I think that's why you have Austan Goolsbee and Jeffrey Schmidt saying let's not do anything at all this meeting it's too uncertain and that's on the one hand. You've got members of the committee do nothing. Inflation is still a worry. We don't know what's happening. You've got the bulk of them are saying, let's buy a bit of insurance because of the job market, and you've got Stephen Mirren who says 0.5%, the ceiling is falling, the building is on fire. I think this is a very risky position for the Fed to be in, and it certainly does not give confidence for direction in the future.