All right, we are at the top of the hour and any moment now we're going to hear from President Trump as he holds a White House roundtable with business leaders. We are also waiting that ever critical rate cut decision from the Federal Reserve. It is expected widely by the markets to be a 0.25% point cut. President Trump's, OK, we can confirm now, it is official. It is another 0.25 point cut from the Federal Reserve, and this is as the potential pick for the next Federal Reserve chair by President Trump, Kevin Hassett, joined us last hour, and he is touting what he says is a booming economy. I think that if you bring stronger data than he's been using to show people the rationale for why they could have a bigger rate cut, then you can definitely get to 50 basis points or even more. All right, just getting some of the breaking details here. It was a 9 to 3 vote, one of President Trump's picks there inside the Fed. Myron wanted a 50 basis point cut that obviously didn't happen, but the Federal Reserve chair has indicated there is room for more, so we'll see. Welcome to a new hour of America Reports. I'm Sandra Smith in New York. I'm sure President Trump would like 50 basis points as well. I'm John Roberts in Washington. Markets and economists are on edge waiting to see if the moment matches what the economy is doing. As we wait to hear later on in the press conference what Jay Powell has to say about President Trump's economy. OK, so we are watching markets which have been up throughout the trading session today and still remain so. The S&P 500 up 16 points. With us now is Mohammed El-Erian. Gramercy Funds management chair and Allian's chief economic advisor Mohammed, great to have you here for this moment. Why is it so critical what is happening with this Federal Reserve interest rate cut and for everybody watching at home, their money and the American economy. So the interest rates impacts a lot of things including most importantly the cost of borrowing. It also signals to businesses what they can and and should do well and where they should be cautious. So what people are gonna look at is not just the fact that the Fed cut 25 basis points, but how is it packaged. Are they signaling more cuts ahead? Are they confident about the economy? And critically, there's something else that unfortunately people roll their eyes when I mention it, about how they're using their balance sheets. These are the sorts of things that people like me will be watching. OK. Should they have cut more in your view? No, I think 25 base is the right thing. I wish I had started earlier. And I wish to indicate they're going to go further. That feeds into President Trump's too late Powell nickname. Are you on board with the president's criticism of the Federal Reserve chair? I am, and I've said it with you that they should have started cutting in July, but my biggest concern about this Fed is a lack of a vision. They don't tell you where it's going. They don't embrace the productivity gains that are on the horizon and therefore they cause much more uncertainty than they should. Just looking at some of what's coming out of the Federal Reserve as they made their decision, the Fed notes that the economy has been expanding at a moderate pace. Job job gains have slowed, it is noted, and unemployment rate, the unemployment rate has edged up, which we very well know. What do you take away from all that? So they're right to worry about the labor market and the concern we all have is that the labor market will weaken too much. What you'll also see is they're going to express concern that inflation is above above that target of 2%. So that's where they're torn, and without a unifying vision, Sandra, they're going to be iffy, they're going to be hesitant, and I think there's going to be a cost to the economy. Yeah, they're noting inflation has moved up from earlier in the year, remains somewhat elevated. Uncertainty about the outlook remains elevated, elevated, uh, just noting some of the words coming from the Federal Reserve as we do await that news conference half past the hour. I want to play out Kevin Hassett. He is in contention, as we well know, to be the next Federal Reserve chair. He joined us last hour and said this about the economy. We're making great progress. We've made huge progress in the last term, and right now all of the indicators are that the 3% growth that we gave you last time is a really, really low ball estimate of what we're going to be able to deliver because we've got the AI boom making productivity go through the roof. We've got $18 trillion in new factories being built. The economy is booming. Jobs are growing, but people were absolutely harmed. So he says the economy is booming and President Trump, Mohammed. When asked yesterday, when speaking yesterday, I should say in Pennsylvania, he's, he's given a grade of A plus plus plus, and he's slamming Democrats for labeling this an affordability crisis when he says it was the last administration who caused the inflation. Listen. Our economy is unbelievable. There's never been anything, but the Democrats go out. Prices are too high. Yeah, they're too high because they caused them to be too high, but now they're coming down. One of the most important ways we're defeating inflation is by unleashing American energy, including oil, gas, and clean, beautiful coal. So I'll finish with this idea of like what. People are feeling versus what is happening. They're making the case that there's a lot of wins on the economy. Yet as I noted to Kevin, consumer confidence under this presidency has taken a hit. It's down about 16%. But yet at the same time they can tout gas prices down 6%, stocks up 15% at record highs, hourly earnings are going up. Now you've got record holiday travel. The mall traffic is apparently up. So what is the disconnect there? So we are seeing the biggest disconnect that I've ever seen between actual. And perceived, so the economy is doing fine and as Kevin Hazzard rightly said, we're running at 3 to 4% GDP. That's, that's really high. At the same time, consumer sentiment is flashing yellow, people are worried. The reason is price level, they've seen prices go up. Remember we had the inflation spike in 2021, 2022, we had 9% inflation, Sara, and that's embedded into the system. The second is people are worried that this AI will leave them behind. So while AI is driving the economy, they're worried that growth will stay up here, but employment will be down here, and that is an issue that we have to make sure that as we deploy AI, we deploy it in a labor enhancing way, not in a labor replacement way. Real quick final thought on that, people watch you and we introduce you as the Obama economist, as you were, and it sounds to me like you're agreeing with President Trump. That a lot of things are going right right now, but he's had to deal with a, a big mess, and that was that sky high inflation that happened in 21 and 22. So I'm a technocrat and I was on a bipartisan Obama committee, but think of me as a technocrat. I'll tell you how it is, um, right now the issue for the economy is twofold. One is debt. We haven't talked about debt and we have to worry about that for our kids. That's gonna be a real issue. And second is getting this AI revolution correct. It is promising us huge productivity growth, huge economic growth, as long as we deploy it well, and we need to talk about this because this is an opportunity of a generation ahead of us. If we get that right. Then issues of affordability, issues of indebtedness, issues of inequality can be dealt with. If we get it wrong, these issues will be worse. We really appreciate your perspective. We're really trying to get this right for our viewers, for the American public, you know, dealing with just the facts because there's a lot of politics getting in the way of what is actually happening. We appreciate you, Mum.